Problem Solving and Software Development S2 2024

Logbook 5 - Tate Manning - a1821633

Question 1 - Multiples

For my first questions, i decided to pick some of the easier/beginer questions so that i could practice coding under some time pressure. I set myself two hours and will attempted to complete both the Multiples and one other question frommthe week 5 set.

For Multiples, it seemed to me that there was a mathematical way i could solve the problem without needing to loop through the whole range of numbers. I set myself 15 minutes to try and find a mathematical solution, and if i cannot work it out and start coding, i will revert to a loop solution
I found that if i calculated the max divided by the factor (rounded down to nearest int) would give me the total of numbers from 0 to max that are evenly divisbly. i can then subtract the min divided by factor (rounded down again) to find how many are outside the range.

When implementing, i ran into trouble with somee of the edge cases, and in the interest of time i decided to implement a for loop, which i knew was a less efficient solution but it was easier for me to implement.

Question 2 - Barbecue

I first thought i shopuld create two vectors that kept track of how many votes each member recieved, and how many each cast. Then i could check those vevcotrs to determine who would be excluded. If there were ties, i would take all the highest voted individuals and find the one out of them that cast the most votes.
This worked, but i initially had some toruble trying to sort the ties out correctly. I also had some out of bounds errors with my loops but they were easy to fix after some testing.


Weekly Reflection
I didnt leave myself enough time this week to practice my coding which i am disapointed in. In the coming weeks as myy schedule is less busy i plan to put more effort into practicing and doing some extra problems when i get the time. I was happy tih week to work on my coding speed however, and i found that completing the problems under time pressure led me to think about how i approached the problems differently, and overall will be good experience fgor the practical exams.


